you
what is the fundamental ingredient for
life on Earth looking at our earth from
space there is abundant of water for our
usage however only a small portion of
Earth water is accessible for our needs
how much fresh water exists and where is
it stored the quality of water affects
all of us
water pollution is one of the most
serious ecological threats we ever faced
today due to the increasing of water
pollution research needs to be performed
to determine the level of water
cleanliness before it can be used there
are some known methods to assess the
water quality such as manually collect
the water sample this method requires
the researcher to collect the water
sample by hand at the location transport
it back to the laboratory to be tested
using specific equipment another method
is to bring the equipment itself to the
location gaining results in a shorter
time both methods require the researcher
to be present at the water collecting
point these two methods give major
problems if the coverage area to be
tested is very large for example the
water surface area for tasik kenyir is
two hundred and sixty kilometer square
for such a large area the water quality
for the left side and the right side
might be different to overcome this
problem we have come up with an ideal
which is mobility boy for water quality
assessment in real time data or a 3gs
boy using the three hey s boy depending
on the gsm communication signal
availability a researcher or user is
able to assess the water quality
remotely in real time from the office or
even from the lab without having to be
present at the water collecting point
upon receiving accorded it from the user
the three hash s boy can move to the
given point measure the water quality
and send back the results to the
researcher wirelessly via gsm connect
this means that the boy is able to cover
the whole waters of his area 30 ish s is
programmed with self mobility
positioning system using GPS which a
neighbor the boy to move to any location
instructor constant calculation of
positioning and abel's the boy to spot
at one location and even if it is
drifted away the three ish s boy will
rotate and move back to the last
instructed location three years ish boy
was designed with lightweight materials
so the function of possibility can be
achieved the boy is equipped with
high-efficiency solar panel to retouch
the two units on bought batteries the
system will measure the voltage level of
each battery the battery with higher
voltage level will supply power to the
system whereas the other battery will be
recharged the 30 ish s boy has been
tested at two locations the first one is
at the pool of universiti teknologi mara
Shah Alam Chancellery the results are as
follows each of the five red markers
indicates the locations that the boy has
already reached the second location is
at the lake of section 2 Shah Alam the
results were compared with the water
quality guide which is the national
water quality standards for Malaysia to
test its viability the novelty for these
three ish s boy is that it reduces labor
costs robust energy saving and also
contribute to the green technology
you